with Nepali. Aside from the vocabulary (words) included in this work, it consists of
the appendices of kinship terms, religious ceremonies, weight and measures, days of
the week, months of the year and numbers. The pronominal suffixes, agreement
patterns of copular and bitransitive verbs are some of the characteristics they point
out. The appendices provide some descriptive materials related to morphosyntactic
features of the Darai language.
The study on Darai language is found in Darai Phonemic Summary (Kotapish
and Kotapish 1975). They present minimal pairs, vowels and consonants, consonant
clusters and positional variants (intervocalic position of consonants, word medial
(preconsonantal) and word final position). This is the first serious investigation of the
Darai phonology. This study brings a wealth of facts about Darai phonology. This
study serves as an outstanding starting point for anyone interested in Darai
phonology. However, some phonological features evident in the Chitwan dialect are
not mentioned in this study. For instance, we find consonant sounds such as /l/, /m/,
/n/ and /r/ in intervocalic position in the Chitwan dialect which they (1975) have
not mentioned.
Kotapish (1973) analyses the cases in Darai. She reports that the nominative
case is unmarked, ergative case is coded with -i, accusative is coded with
-ke, locative with -j and ablative with the postposition maṭe 'from'. Thus, she
analyses the major aspects of the case relation and case markers. When it is compared
with the Chitwan dialect, it exhibits some contrasts. Firstly, she mentions that the first
person singular also codes ergativity (1973:28) which is absent in the Chitwan dialect.
Secondly, she notes that all nouns except kinship terms have no inflection in the
accusative. We have some counter examples for this statement from our discourse
data, such as oru-ke 'ox-ACC', boti-ke 'Bhothi fish-ACC'. Thus, the 'accusative
case' can be extended to animate nouns. Thirdly, the ablative is coded with the
ablative marker -se 'from' and the postposition maṭe 'from' in the Chitwan dialect.
She simply mentions the postposition maṭe 'from' as the ablative marker.
Dawadi (2040 VS) is a bilingual glossary (Darai-Nepali glossary). The
glossary contains the lexical entries classifying them under 36 semantic domains.
Additionally, an outline of the Darai grammar has been presented. However, the
treatment of grammatical features is inadequate. Neither the pronominal possessive
3
