143
comment, for no plan can be perfect both in its formulation and
implementation.
20. CONCLUSION
The general impression that one could gather from the avail-'
able published material on Yeravas is that the Yerava tribe is a
homogeneous unit consisting of people speaking;a common lan
guage, having a common origin and identity. a.nd sharing the
same set of socia-cultural traditions and customs. The Yeravas of
Kodagu have all along been regarded as a single tribe consisting
of the four sub-divisions of Pani Yerava, Panjiri Yerav~, Badaga
Yerava and Kage Yerava. The language spoken .by them has at
times been treated as a dialect of Malayatam and at other times
accorded the status of a separate h::rnguage. The present study has
revealed that the field situation is totally different. The: P~ni·\yera­
vas and the Panjiri Yeravas are separate tribes having their\own
distinctive identities, speaking their own languages and having
distinct sets of socio-cultural traditions. The most striking differ
ence between them lies in their social organisation: :While Pani
Yeravas represent a patriarchal group the Panjiri Yeravas repr~s­
ent a matriarchal group. In fact; there appears to be considerable
evidence to support the view tnat the Pani Yeravas and Panjiri
Yeravas are identical with the Paniyans and Adiyans of the Wynad
r~ion of the adjoining Kerala State. The Badaga Yeravas met with
in Virajpet taluk too belong to two distinctgroups,and except for the
name they have nothing in common. One of these groups claims
identity with the Soligas of Mysore district and the other. which
hails from Heggadadevankote at" Mysore district, clail'ns to repres
ent a gro'up of the original Panjiri Yeravas settled in the villages of
that taluk. Both these groups are patrilineal and speak Kannada
both at home and with outsiders. The Kage Yeravas are said to be
quite indistinguishable from the Pani Yeravas inasmuch as that it
is difficult to trace out people who describe themselves by this
group name. The main thing that these groups have in common is
that they are using the term Yerava as an appendage to their
proper trlbatn~mes and have therefore been regarded as belong
ing to the Scheduled Tribe notified under the nomenclature 'Yer
ava'. There are similarities in their historical past and economic
backgrounds. They are generally viewed as the descendants of
the one-time denizens of forests who were enslaved and subse
quently entiSt~ as agrestic serfs of the yesteryears. They are not
associated with any unclean or defiling professions or habits.
;,
