3
consigned to praedial slavery in Codugu proper are known gener
ally under the term Yeravaru". In Kannada language, the term
Yeravaru happens to be the plural form of Yerava. In his article on
the 'Original Inhabitants of Sharat Varsha or India' under the
sub-title, Kodagas, Gustav Oppert (The Journal of Literature and
. t
Science, 1888-89, ed. Captain A.H. Campbell, Part 11., P 140) avers
that, "It is not impossible that the present Kodagas, unless they are
regarded as aborigines, immigrated at a later period to Kurg. tn
those early days, the Billavas and the Kurumbas, the two represen
tatives of ancient Dravidian and Gondian tribes, were ~Iready
living on these mountains, as well as the Holeyas and Yeravas:vvho
probably had not been degraded as bond slaves and out c~stes".
Reverend G.Aichter who compiled the Coorg Manual obselV~s
(Richter, .18E\7, p.114) that, "Yeravas, a wandering tribe originaffy
from Wynad, where, like the Holeyas in Coorg, they were held in
slavery by the Nairs. They speak their own language and live
chiefly in Kiggatnad with the Coorgs to whose mode of life· and\
worship they have conformed. Like them they eat no beef and'·
therefore rank higher than the Holeyas and Medas. They are
strong and diligent labourers ..... In features and complexion the
Yeravas resemble the KurLlbas; like them they are scantily dressed.
At their Wedding and at their panda/ata or demon feast they
chant their peculiar songs and have dances, in which like in those
of the Paleyas, women take part, an extra ordinary practice
amongst Hindus". During 1897-98, T.H. Holland who took anthro
pometriC measurements of 50 Kodavas and 25 Yeruvas (Holland,
1901,p.59) states that "Like many of the aboriginal tribes of South
India who have been compelled to retire to the unhealthy hills
before the southward spread of the Aryans, the Yeruvas f04nd in
Coorg an asylum or refuge from the aggressive invaders. At a later
period ...... Kodagas (Coorgs) found in the jungles of Coorg the
means for satisfying their hunting propensities. ... whilst to the Yer
uva the litfre -mountain province was a place of retreat, to the
Kodaga it was a Nature-made point d' appui for border raids,
conducted with a view to supplementing the limited agricultural
resources of the small plateau".
In the Imperial Gazetteer of India dealing with Coorg, B.L. Rice
(Vol. XI, Mysore and Coorg, 1908, pp-295 & 3(0) writes, ''the two
