5
they do not mix or inter marry. ... It would be appropriate to list
them as distinct tribes... The claim that the Pani section is an
offshoot of the Paniyans of Wynad has not been ~ubstantiated.
The three groups have kulas (clans) named after locations, trees"
and animals. All sections· follow the patrifineal rule of succession".
(Luiz, A.A.D. 1963. P 188-9). It is also interesting t9 note that in his
notes on Adiyan, Luiz (Ibid, p-1) mentions that, "In certain tracts
they are known as Eravas (Yeravas)," a name which connotes that
they were alineable with the land and were given to begging,
without, however, incorporating a corraborati·ve statement inthe
notes on Yerava. Further, Luiz, has not made any-reference to the
Kaji Yeravas, the fourth group among the Yeravas, men~ioned by
. , .
the earlier writers.
'\
2.1 It is obvious from the foregoing that while the earlier writers
have recognised only two groups of Yeravas· (both presumably
speaking the same language) the tater writers, notabty lyer, t"ylve
listed out four groups. In so far as the census count is concem~,, it
is only during 1871 and 1891 that the Pan; Yeravas and the Panjiri
Yeravas were enumerated separately. At the remaining censuses
the Yerava has been considered as a single tribe without regard to
its interrial structure. Thus, the four communities of Kodagu which
have been using the suffix Yerava with their distinctive names are
the Pani Yerava, the Panjiri Yerava, the Badava or Badaga Yerava
and the Kaji or Kage Yerava. Apart from the fact that in the past
members of these communities were agricutturallabourers, more
or less perman.3ntly attached to thi% landlords, nothing much is
known about their identity I.e., whether these groups represent
branches of a single tribe sharing a common origin or whether
these represent differe~t communities which have been fntegrpted
into a single tribe with a specific regional or socio-political order to
form a heirarchy of sub-tribes. It is of interest to note at this
juncture- that Badaga is also an independent tribe. According to
Edgar Thurston, "As the Todas are the pastoral, and the Kotas the
artisan tribe of the Nilgiris, so the agricultural element on these
hills is represented by "the Badagas .... The name Badaga or Vadu
gan means !"Orthener, and the aadagas are believed to be·des
ceflded 'from Canarese colonists from the Mysore country, who
rT,'grated to the Nilgiris three centuries ago owing to famine, politi-
