63
by taking recourse to modern medicine. Another important factor
that restrains them is reported to be the manner in which such
poor rustics are treated in public hospitals and health centres-or
dispensaries. They feel that they do not get either the sympathetic
treatment or the words of consolation from th~ doctors and their
assistants, w'hen forced by circumstances they would rather
prefer a private medical practitioner.
9.5 Some idea regarding their attitude towards disease, treat
ment and death may be had from the following instance.
Bachayya. is a retired peon who has served in some of the hostels
maintained by the Social Welfare Department and had a~ oppor
tunity of knowing the world beyond that to which an ordinary tribal
is confined. His wife is also employed as a helper in a Balawadi and
his daughters are matriculates. One of his daughters has married a
man of, higher caste and another is studying in a college at Mysore.
Recently his son Mani, aged about 24. died after a brief il~ness.
Mani had completed primary level of education and. having
become friendly with some immigrants from Malabar, had learnt
the craft of sawing timber. In fact, he had picked up the wor:k and
was earning considerable sums of money prior to his illness. A few
months ago a girl was betrothed and his marriage was to take
place shortly. But. during thiS intervening period he suffered
severe attacks of cough and began to vomit blood frequently. He
was taken to the doctors at Tithmathi and also to the hospital at
Gonikoppal, the nearest town. In spite of medical treatment Mani
died during January 83. While narrating these incidents Bachayya,
instead of mentioning malnutrition, health hazard associated with
the nature of work or inherent weaknesses in his son, preferred to
ascribe his son's disease and death to the misfortune that befell his
son and his family because of the betrothal involving an unlucky
girl. He firmly believed that, but for this association with an
unlucky girl, Mani would not have died. If the 'attitude of a fairly
forward and progressive man of the tribe is of this nature one can
easily visualise the depth of superstition that pervades those who
have very little contact with the educated.
~
10. LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE
Since the Pani Yeravas, the Panjiri Yeravas. Badaga Yeravas and
Kage Yeravas, have all along been fegarded as endogamous
