64
groups of a single tribe, the languages spoken by each one of
them at home also seem to have been assumed to be the same.
The name of the tribe itself appears to have been found most
convenient to designate the language spoken by its members.
Thus. the very first census in 1871, mentions Yerava as a separa,te
language. But, on account of its affinity with Malayalam, the 1901
census categorises Yerava as a dialect of Malayatam. According to
Grierson's Linguistic Survey also Yerava is a dialect of Malayalam.
In the 1921 census however Yerava is mentioned as a 'peculiar
language' of Kodagu. In 1961 also Yerava has been treated as a
separ~te language. But in 1971, since this language has been
considered as a part of Malayalam language separate details are
not available. Thus, a cursory appraisal reveals that at times the
language spoken by these tribals has been classified as an
independent language and at times this has been regarded as a
dialect of Malayalam. No attempt seems to have been made at any
time to ascertain the identity of the languages spoken by the
different groups among themselves and to find out the definite
inter-relationship subsisting between these languages and any
other language of the region including Malayalam and those
spoken by the Paniyans and Adiyans of Wynad.
10.1 The present study has thrown up the fact that the Pani
Yeravas and Panjiri Yeravas are two distinct communities and.
despite certain broad similarities, the languages spoken by them
among themselves are also separate. Both are undoubtedly of
Dravidian origin and both contain several words (in their pure or
corrupted form) which basically belong to other Dravidian
languages like Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada. Certain words of
Kodava language are also in use among the people of both the
groups. It would perhaps be fallacious to conclude that the
languages spoken by each group are completely independent or
that all these are different dialects of a single language namely
Malayalam, merely on the basis of the presence or absence of a
few words of one language in the other. An in-depth linguistic
study of these languages in relation to one another and also in
relation to the other regional languages alone can provide
satisfactory answers. It may be mentioned in paSSing that a
linguistic analysis of the Yerava language has been carried out
