4
distinctive classes special to Coorg are the Kodagas or Coorgs
proper, from time immemorial the lords of the soil, and the Eravas
or Yeravas, their hereditary praedial slaves, now of course free. ...
They (Yeravas) live almost entirely in the Kiggatnad and Yedenal
knad taluks and are said to have come originally from the Wynad.
They speak a language of their own-a dialect of Malayalam. They
are much sought after as labourers, and are slaves in all but the
name. ... There are two sections - Panjiris and Paniyas. The former
allow their fleecy hair to grow to dense masses which are never
disturbed by a comb, but seldom have more than a few straggling
hairs to represent a beard. Their appearance resembles that of
Australian aborigines ...... It may be incidentally mentioned that at
the 1871 and 1891 censuses, the Yeravas are shown as belonging
to two groups namely Panjiri Yeravas and Pani Yeravas. Coming
to latertiiTIes, L.A. Krishna Iyer (Iyer L.A.K. 1948,p. 8) records that
"the Yeravas are aborigines of Wynad from which they gradually
migrated to the forests of South COorg .... They are the lowest of
the jungle tribes and appear to have been in a servile condition to
the Betta Kurubas .... The tribe is composed of four endogamous
groups, the Panjiri, the Pania, the Badava and the Kaji Yeravas.
The Panjiri stand highest in the social scale and the Kaji the lowest.
because of their habit of eating crows. The Panjiri Yeravas who
came from Mysore are divided into two sub-groups : Ippumale
Yeravas and Karatti Yeravas. The former are said to have immi
grated from Ippumale which is Situated beyond the Manantoddi
river, and are generally found in Srimangala and Ponnampet
nads; and the latter in Parattimale near Bythoor. There"js no inter
marriage between them. The Badava Yeravas, who are also found
in Mysore are mostly found in Coorg .... The Panias and Panjiri
neither interdine nor intermarry. A Panjiri can become a Pania but
not vice-versa ... :' In 1951, K.L.N.Rao, merely repeats the observa
tions of Iyer when he writes that "he Yeravas seem to have
migrated from Wynad .... At one time seem to have been slaves of
Betta Kurubas ... There are four endogamous groups: Panjiri,
Paniya, Badava and Kaji Yeravas in the order of socia. standing".
Again, in 1963, A.A.D. Luiz repeats the salient observations made
by the eanier writers and states, .,he three main divisions are
Panjiri, Pani and Badava or Badaga. All sections have the suffix
Yerava, which is the generic name in common parlance. though
