Acknowledgements
The sociolinguistic survey of Darai, an Indo-Aryan language, was conducted in the
month of October 2014 under the leadership of Prof. Dr. Dan Raj Regmi, the Head of
the Central Department of Linguistics and Director of the Linguistic Survey of Nepal
with a team consisting of Dr. Ambika Regmi and Mr. Indresh Thakur (researchers of
LinSuN).
First of all, we would like to express our sincere gratitude to the Linguistic Survey of
Nepal (LinSuN), Central Department of Linguistics, Tribhuvan University, for
providing us the opportunity to conduct a sociolinguistic field study in the Darai
speech community.
We would like to thank all the members of the Darai speech community of Bhadgaun,
Byas Municipality-1, Tanahu; Pipaltar, Ramjakot-2, Tanahu; Dedgaun-7,
Nawalparasi; Pidrahani, Kathar-9, Chitwan; and Jagatpur-1, Chitwan.
Similarly, our special thanks go to Bir Bahadur Darai, Chij Bahadur Darai, and Dil
Bahadur Darai of Bhadgaun, Byas municipality, Tanahu; Antaman Darai, Bimal
Darai, Kul Bahadur Darai, Somnath Darai, Rup Bahadur Darai of Pipaltar, Ramjakot-
2, Tanahu; Kamal Bahadur Darai, Khadag Bahadur Darai, Netra Bahadur Darai, and
Chandra Bahadur Darai of Dedgaun-7, Nawalparai; Khublal Darai, Mangali Darai,
Sitaram Darai, and Som Darai of Pidrahni, Kathar-9, Chitwan; and Laxman Darai,
Buddhi Maya Darai, Gayatri Darai, and Govind Darai of Jagatpur-1, Chitwan.
We also thank all the language consultants of the Darai speech community for their
support and providing required data during the field survey. Without their support and
cooperation, it was impossible to complete the sociolinguistic survey of this language.
We owe a great deal to Prof. Dr. Dan Raj Regmi, head and director, Prof. Dr. Chura
Mani Bandhu, Prof. Dr. Tej Ratna Kansakar, Prof. Dr. Yogendra Prasad Yadava, Prof.
Nirmalman Tuladhar, Prof. Dr. Novel Kishor Rai, Prof. Dr. Madhav Prasad Pokharel,
Linguistic Survey of Nepal (LinSuN) and Dr. Balaram Prasain, Central Department of
Linguistics, for their encouragement for data analysis and report writing.
Dr. Ambika Regmi
Mr. Indresh Thakur
i
